ADDON_SUMMARY - History
Author: ADDON_AUTHOR_NAME


%!includeconf: ../addon_global.t2tconf
%!includeconf: addon_informations.t2tconf


URL: ADDON_AUTHOR_URL

[GitHub repository: ADDON_REPOSITORY ADDON_REPOSITORY]

Download:
- [Current stable version: ADDON_CUR_VERSION ADDON_DOWNLOAD_SERVER1]
- [Previous stable Version: ADDON_PREV_VERSION ADDON_DOWNLOAD_PREVIOUS]
- [Development's versions ADDON_DEV_URL]


Sorry, but this document is an automatic translation from french language.

+ v2.2.1 (12/09/2020) +
updated Turkish translation.

+ v2.2 (06/12/2020) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.3
- fixed the conflict of the quick navigation key for bookmarks (, "):" - "by default and" ¡"for Spanish keyboard.
- addition of the "What's new" button in the dialog proposing the installation of a new update.
- addition of the "View history" button in the "Update" category of the add-on's parameters.
- code cleaning (corrections of errors detected by Flake8)


+ v2.1 (28/07/2020) +
Compatibility with NVDA 2020.2

+ v2.0 (16/04/2020) +
- compatibility with NVDA 2020.1.
- add scripts to move to the first or last cell in the table.
- add of the announcement of the arrival of the first or last cell in the table.
- selection of the cell after a displacement by command in a table(to have the same behavior as standard when moving by tabulation).
- the number of line or column is announced in accordance with option "Cell coordinates" of the category "Document Formatting" of NVDA.
- adaptation of scripts for the spell checker of Word 2019.
- automatic reading of comments and footnotes (NVDA 2019.3 and above).
- correction of a too long response time at the end of the document and when moving by paragraph.
- compliance with NVDA for the compatibility test of extensions with NVDA.
- browseMode quick navigation keys configurable according to the language of NVDA.


Changes for the user: the navigation mode command keys and some command gestures have been modified to be compatible with a Qwerty keyboard.

+ v1.0.1 (07/03/2020) +
- correction of the documentation.
- translation of the addon in Spanish by Gunther Melendez, changes by Rémy Ruiz.


+ v1.0 (07/02/2020) +
This add-on changes name to avoid confusion with other add-ons. His version starts with 1.0.
- compatibility with NVDA 2019.3.
- input gesture modifications:
  - replacement of the key NVDA by pressing the "windows" in the combinations with the "alt" key.
 - suppression of the input gestures of scripts for moving with announcement of all cells.
- added script to enable or disable the announcement of the cells in that row or column during a displacement into a table.
- add table layer mode bringing the possibility to use the arrow keys to move around the tables.
- add the script to announce the current cell.
- add the script "document Information",
- improvement of the accessibility of the spelling corrector of Word 2013 and 2016.
- deletion of the announcement of the header level changes.
- preparation of the compatibility to python 3.


+ v3.1 (April 10, 2016) +
- adding the announcement of the column for the keyboard command "key_line_page"


+ v3.0 (10 March 2016) +
- removal scripts of a fast-moving (duplicate with the mode of navigation of NVDA),
- removal scripts to announce in the second support the title of the rows or columns (use now the option included in NVDA),
- compatibility with NVDA 2016.1.


+ v2.5 (22 June 2015) (not released) +
- change the keyboard command: "nvda+control+f6" "alt+backspace" and nvda + numpad delete".
- indication of the position relative to the left and upper edge (command "alt + backspace"", "alt + numpad delete")
- adding the search objects in the current page (command nvda+alt+f5)
- compatibility mode with the navigation of NVDA (change navigation shortcuts)


+ v2.4 (11 June 2015) +
- correction block appeared since NVDA 2015.1
- add the script to select the mode quick navigation


+ v2.3 (14 December 2014) +
- add command to move the focus to the previous or next sentence ("alt+ up or down Arrow")
- correction of documentation and translation
- fixed manifest.ini


+ v2.2 (1, November 15, 2014) +
- added quick navigation
- separation into two categories of objects graph (those in the text layer, the drawing layer)
- add the script "nvda+alt+r" to read the text-editing cursor,
- add the script "nvda+alt+e" to read the note at the end or bottom of the page to the cursor


+ v2.1 (1 October 2014) +
- added button "Find and view",
- adding shortcuts to the buttons of the dialog boxes,
- Correction of the documentation
- change the background color of the list items.
- fixed default selection on pressing button "Search and copy to clipboard"


+ v2.0 (24 September 2014) +
- compatibility with version 2014.3
- added scripts for tables
- added script for enabling or disabling the skip empty paragraphs


+ v1.0 (24 January 2014) +
- Creation of the add-on
